TF-9201 Update OAuth Clients Documentation (#503)
hashicorp/terraform-docs-common: website/docs/cloud-docs/api-docs/oauth-clients.mdx

---
page_title: OAuth Clients - API Docs - Terraform Cloud
description: >-

>   Use the `/oauth-clients` endpoint to manage OAuth connections between your organization and a VCS provider. List, show, create, update, and destroy clients using the HTTP API. Attach and detach oauth clients to projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Use the `/oauth-clients` endpoint to manage OAuth connections between your organization and a VCS provider. List, show, create, update, and destroy clients using the HTTP API. Attach and detach OAuth clients to projects.
```

            "related": "/api/v2/organizations/my-organization"
          }
        },
        "projects": {
          "data": [
            { "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }
          ]

>         }, 

Reviewer: Maybe I'm misunderstanding something, but shouldn't it be invalid to have both `"organization-scoped": true` and `"projects"` set? The [intro sentence](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-docs-common/pull/503/files#diff-78cfd284f7cfbdd8eb861d7282b40c9e950a1b84ab6eed93b4c7cb78d22fb077L41) above says "or", for example.

      "http-url": "https://github.com",
      "api-url": "https://api.github.com",
      "key": null,
      "rsa-public-key": null,

>       "organization-scoped": false

Author: @robin-norwood I went back and checked with the team. It is actually possible for organization-scoped to be true and for there to be projects in the relationships too. 
Here is an example of when that could happen:
1. oauth-client is initially organization-scoped
2. The user adds Project A to the oauth-client and now the organization-scoped is false
3. The user sets provider back to organization-scoped, organization-scoped is now true again, **but** we want to retain all the projects that the user added to the oauth-client incase they want it to be project scoped again and so they dont have to re-add all the projects.

Reviewer: Ah, got it. So, if I understand it correctly, if organization-scoped is true, the oauth client will be available to all projects in the org. If it is false, it will only be available to the projects in the `projects` list.

Author: yup exactly

          "related": "/api/v2/organizations/my-organization"
        }
      },
      "projects": {
        "data": [
          { "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }
        ]

>       },

Reviewer: Same comment as [above](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-docs-common/pull/503/files#diff-78cfd284f7cfbdd8eb861d7282b40c9e950a1b84ab6eed93b4c7cb78d22fb077R108).

| `data.attributes.name`               | string | `null`  | An optional display name for the OAuth Client. If left `null`, the UI will default to the display name of the VCS provider.                                                                    |
| `data.attributes.key`                | string |         | The OAuth Client key. It can refer to a Consumer Key, Application Key, or another type of client key for the VCS provider.                                                                     |
| `data.attributes.http-url`           | string |         | The homepage of your VCS provider (e.g. `"https://github.com"` or `"https://ghe.example.com"` or `"https://gitlab.com"`).                                                                      |

> | `data.attributes.api-url`            | string |         | The base URL as per your VCS provider's API documentation (e.g. `"https://api.github.com"`, `"https://ghe.example.com/api/v3"` or `"https://gitlab.com/api/v4"`).                              |

Reviewer: looks like an existing typo with the dangling `or..`, but can we go ahead and fix it in this PR?

| `data.attributes.oauth-token-string` | string |         | The token string you were given by your VCS provider                                                                                                                                           |
| `data.attributes.private-key`        | string |         | **Required for Azure DevOps Server. Not used for any other providers.** The text of the SSH private key associated with your Azure DevOps Server account.                                      |
| `data.attributes.secret`             | string |         | The OAuth Client secret. For BitBucket Server, this secret is the the text of the SSH private key associated with your BitBucket Server Application Link.                                      |
| `data.attributes.rsa-public-key`     | string |         | **Required for BitBucket Server in conjunction with the `secret`. Not used for any other providers.** The text of the SSH public key associated with your BitBucket Server Application Link.   |
| `data.attributes.organization-scoped` | boolean |         | Whether or not the oauth client is scoped to all projects and workspaces in the organization. Defaults to `true`.

> | `data.relationships.projects.data[]` | array\[object] | `[]`      | A list of resource identifier objects that defines which projects are associated with the oauth client. These objects must contain `id` and `type` properties, and the `type` property must be `projects`. For example, `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`. |

Reviewer: Assuming I'm not wrong about this, can we be explicit that `data.relationships.projects.data[]` is only used when `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to `false`?

Author: I added a sentence.

> | `data.relationships.projects.data[]` | array\[object] | `[]`      | A list of resource identifier objects that defines which projects are associated with the oauth client. This is only used when `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to false. These objects must contain `id` and `type` properties, and the `type` property must be `projects`. For example, `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`. |

Author: @robin-norwood based on my comment above, I would need to remove this sentence
```This is only used when `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to false.```

Reviewer: Maybe reword it like:
```If `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to `false`, the OAuth client will only be available to the projects in this list.```

> | `data.attributes.organization-scoped` | boolean |         | Whether or not the oauth client is scoped to all projects and workspaces in the organization. Defaults to `true`.
> | `data.relationships.projects.data[]` | array\[object] | `[]`      | A list of resource identifier objects that defines which projects are associated with the oauth client. This is only used when `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to false. These objects must contain `id` and `type` properties, and the `type` property must be `projects`. For example, `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`. |

Reviewer: Ok, how about:
```suggestion
| `data.attributes.organization-scoped` | boolean |         | Whether or not the oauth client is scoped to all projects and workspaces in the organization. Defaults to `true`.
| `data.relationships.projects.data[]` | array\[object] | `[]`      | A list of resource identifier objects that defines which projects are associated with the OAuth client. If `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to `false`, the OAuth client is only available to this list of projects. Each object in this list must contain a project `id` and use the `"projects"` type. For example, `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`. |
```

Author: done!

      "http-url": "https://github.com",
      "api-url": "https://api.github.com",
      "oauth-token-string": "4306823352f0009d0ed81f1b654ac17a"
    },
    "relationships": {
      "projects": {
        "data": [
          { "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }
        ]

>       }

Reviewer: Would this example include `"organization-scoped": false`, or no?

          "related": "/api/v2/organizations/my-organization"
        }
      },
      "projects": {
        "data": [
          { "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }
        ]

>       },

Reviewer: Same question as above. :)

Author: Done.

| `data.attributes.key`            | string | (previous value) | The OAuth Client key. It can refer to a Consumer Key, Application Key, or another type of client key for the VCS provider.                                                                   |
| `data.attributes.secret`         | string | (previous value) | The OAuth Client secret. For BitBucket Server, this secret is the the text of the SSH private key associated with your BitBucket Server Application Link.                                    |
| `data.attributes.rsa-public-key` | string | (previous value) | **Required for BitBucket Server in conjunction with the `secret`. Not used for any other providers.** The text of the SSH public key associated with your BitBucket Server Application Link. |

> | `data.attributes.organization-scoped` | boolean | (previous value) | Whether or not the oauth client is scoped to all projects and workspaces in the organization. Defaults to `true`.                                                                      |
> | `data.relationships.projects`    | array\[object] | (previous value) | An array of references to projects that the oauth client should be assigned to. Sending an empty array clears all project assignments.                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `data.attributes.organization-scoped` | boolean | (previous value) | Whether or not the oauth client is available to all projects and workspaces in the organization.                                                                      |
| `data.relationships.projects`    | array\[object] | (previous value) | A list of resource identifier objects that defines which projects are associated with the OAuth client. If `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to `false`, the OAuth client is only available to this list of projects. Each object in this list must contain a project `id` and use the `"projects"` type. For example, `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`. Sending an empty array clears all project assignments.                                               |
```

  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/oauth-clients/oc-XKFwG6ggfA9n7t1K
```

## Attach an OAuth Client to projects

`POST /oauth-clients/:id/relationships/projects`

| Parameter | Description                                                                                        |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `:id`     | The ID of the oauth client to attach to projects. Use the "List OAuth Clients" endpoint to find IDs. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `:id`     | The ID of the OAuth client to attach to projects. Use the "List OAuth Clients" endpoint to find IDs. |
```

  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/oauth-clients/oc-XKFwG6ggfA9n7t1K
```

## Attach an OAuth Client to projects

`POST /oauth-clients/:id/relationships/projects`

| Parameter | Description                                                                                        |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `:id`     | The ID of the oauth client to attach to projects. Use the "List OAuth Clients" endpoint to find IDs. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `:id`     | The ID of the OAuth client to attach to projects. Use the "List OAuth Clients" endpoint to find IDs. |
```

| [204][] | Nothing                   | The request was successful                                                 |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][] | OAuth Client not found or user unauthorized to perform action                |
| [422][] | [JSON API error object][] | Malformed request body (one or more projects not found, wrong types, etc.) |

### Request Body

This POST endpoint requires a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

Properties without a default value are required.

| Key path | Type           | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| -------- | -------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `data[]` | array\[object] |         | A list of resource identifier objects that defines which projects to attach the oauth client to. These objects must contain `id` and `type` properties, and the `type` property must be `projects` (e.g. `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`).    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `data[]` | array\[object] |         | A list of resource identifier objects that defines which projects are associated with the OAuth client. If `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to `false`, the OAuth client is only available to this list of projects. Each object in this list must contain a project `id` and use the `"projects"` type. For example, `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`.    |
```

Reviewer: Also there's no default value given here, while above `[]` is given as the default value. Should it be `[]` here as well?

Author: I have added default value for both attach and detach.

| [204][] | Nothing                   | The request was successful                                                 |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][] | OAuth Client not found or user unauthorized to perform action                |
| [422][] | [JSON API error object][] | Malformed request body (one or more projects not found, wrong types, etc.) |

### Request Body

This DELETE endpoint requires a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

Properties without a default value are required.

| Key path | Type           | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------- | -------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `data[]` | array\[object] |         | A list of resource identifier objects that defines the projects the oauth client will be detached from. These objects must contain `id` and `type` properties, and the `type` property must be `projects`. For example, `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `data[]` | array\[object] |         | A list of resource identifier objects that defines which projects are associated with the OAuth client. If `data.attributes.organization-scoped` is set to `false`, the OAuth client is only available to this list of projects. Each object in this list must contain a project `id` and use the `"projects"` type. For example, `{ "id": "prj-AwfuCJTkdai4xj9w", "type": "projects" }`. |
```

Also same question about whether the default value should be `[]` here as well.
